From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroof. This is the daily.
[Music]
>> Capitol Hill is still closed for
business as the government shutdown
heads into week two.
>> We're 6 days into the government
shutdown and the Trump administration is
capitalizing on the moment. Far from
working to end the shutdown, Donald
Trump is using it as an excuse to ramp
up his slash and burn cuts to the
government.
>> By freezing billions of dollars in
spending in cities and states run by
Democrats and threatening to lay off
thousands of government workers.
>> So, who is the man who appears to have
the high trust of President Trump and
gets to decide which federal workers
will stay and which will go?
>> The man at the center of that push to
dismantle and reshape the American
government.
>> Russell vote. Russell vote.
>> Who is Russ Vote?
>> Is White House budget director Russell
Vote. Today, my colleague Coral
Davenport explains how vote, a once
obscure bureaucrat who worked on project
2025,
became one of the most influential
figures in Washington.
[Music]
It's Monday, October 6th.
Coral Russell vote is someone I've
generally been aware of, but right now
because of the shutdown, he has taken on
much more of a protagonist role in the
Trump administration. Everyone seems to
be talking about him. So just to start,
who is Russ Vote?
So Rusvot is the director of the White
House Office of Management and Budget,
which is normally a pretty wonky role,
but at this moment in the shutdown, he
has really taken center stage. He has
had this plan to cut the government, cut
spending, cut agencies, cut workers, and
now is kind of Russ votes time to shine
to do that. And we've seen that this
week as Democrats have painted him as
this villain in the shutdown scenario.
And even Senate Republican leader John
Thun said, "We don't even know what this
guy's going to do." And sort of most
spectacularly of all, the president
posted this video of Russ Vote as the
grim reaper. Now their time has come.
>> So in this video you see vote as
literally the grim reaper striding in
front of the capital and Trump on the
cowbell.
[Music]
Reaper
babies comes the reaper going to tie
your hands. Here comes the reaper. Won't
be able to fly. Here comes the reaper
baby.
>> They sing like now the time has come.
Their powers gone. He ties your hands.
Russ wields the pen, the funds, and the
brain.
You know, this video is nuts, but it's
also
sort of the core of it is really
accurate in so many ways. That's what's
going on right now. The plan that Russ
vote has been putting in place is about
taking power away from Congress, tying
the hands of Congress, bringing the
power over to the White House, to the
president. So, you know, it's like this
crazy internet meme that is kind of
spoton.
>> Okay. So, setting aside the question of
whether we can fact check the AI imagery
in this truly wild video, you're saying
it accurately assesses votes role.
Absolutely. I mean, normally the role of
the White House budget director is just
this very kind of behindthe-scenes uh
job that's really about taking the
president's policy agenda and
translating it into a budget. vote does
far more than that. He is really using
the role as an agenda setter itself. He
has spent years preparing this vision
for the entire federal government. And I
should say this comes from a place of
thinking of the federal bureaucracy as
something that is deeply problematic. He
calls it woke and weaponized and he
really thinks that the federal
government is the problem.
>> And I should say another thing that
comes up in my reporting a lot is uh the
word nerd. He really is this like
hardworking policy nerd who has focused
his whole career on this objective of
smaller government with less spending
and less workers. He's such a true
believer. He even named his dog Milton
for Milton Freriedman the free market
economist.
>> Wow.
>> And now he has met this moment of
shrinking federal government.
>> Okay. You described him as a true
believer. How does he arrive at those
beliefs? How does he get to where he is
now on this mission to radically change
the shape of government?
>> Natalie, I have spent weeks and weeks of
reporting trying to get at that. And I
should say that Russ Vote did not grant
me an interview for this piece, but I
have read hundreds of pages of his
writings. I've listened to hours and
hours of his podcasts. I talked to
between 30 and 40 people who are kind of
in his orbit and have worked with him
and know him and are his friends. And
what kind of came up is is someone who
really has believed this for a very very
long time.
>> I have spent my entire career caring
about taxpayers and families. I have
>> He talked about that in his very first
Senate confirmation hearing.
>> I come from a bluecollar family. I'm the
son of an electrician and a public
school teacher.
>> He grew up in a conservative religious
bluecollar family. He is the youngest of
seven children. Grew up in Trumble,
Connecticut. His father, interestingly,
was a Union electrician and he was a
Marine Corps veteran.
>> His mother was a public school teacher.
In both of those cases, you know, I
don't think of that as being something
that would lead you into trying to work
to minimize government. But he has
described how his parents worked
incredibly hard to support him and his
siblings.
>> I know what they went through to balance
their budget and save for the future. My
parents worked really long hours to put
me through school, but they also worked
long hours to pay for the high levels of
government in their own life. I think he
really genuinely sees the burden of
paying for taxes and government as
weighing so heavily on on families like
his own.
>> My old boss called them the wagon
pullers in our country. Others have
referred to them as the forgotten men
and women. They have always been my test
for federal spending. Did a particular
program or spending increase help the
nameless wagon pullers across our
country working hard at their job trying
to provide for their family and future
without the luxury of watching C-SPAN at
that particular moment to know that we
might increase their burden at that
minute.
[Music]
It sounds like he was kind of turned
against the idea of big government from
the very beginning as a child seeing his
parents navigate this country.
>> Yeah. And you really see that through
line, you know, as soon as he graduated
college, he went straight to Washington
and got a job working for Senator Phil
Graham, a Texas Republican who was at
the time known as this icon of fiscal
conservatism, fiscal austerity. And I
talked to Phil Graham about Russ vote
and he said something interesting. He
said usually, you know, people come to
work for me because they really want to
come and work for me. You know, that
they're really sort of driven by this
idea of slashing government. And I asked
him, you know, what he remembered about
Russ vote and he said he remembered him
as almost working too hard. You know,
working by day to support the agenda of
cutting government and then going to law
school at night. So it's passion that's
combined with this really intense work
ethic.
>> Passion plus discipline. Absolutely. So
after Phil Graham, he goes to work for
the House Republicans. He focuses on
budget policy. This is kind of during
the time of the rise of the Tea Party
movement. So there's this wave of
intense fiscal conservatism,
anti-government
sweeping through Washington. And he's a
natural fit with all of that. and then
uh he goes from there to the Trump
administration. But I should say it
wasn't necessarily an automatic fit for
him. You know, one way that Russ Vote is
very different from President Trump is
he's very religious. He takes his faith
really seriously. He teaches adult Bible
study at his church. And before joining
the first Trump administration, he
actually thought about kind of leaving
the world of Washington policy and going
to seminary and studying to be a pastor.
>> Rus Vote doesn't curse. President Trump
has a foul mouth. He refers to
Christians in the third person. I think
just culturally um there was some
discomfort with that fit. But in the
end, the call of the White House won out
and he joins the first Trump
administration. He's there from the very
beginning. And what does he do in that
first Trump term?
>> Washington has a spending problem and it
endangers the future prosperity of our
nation for generations to come.
>> So he enters the first Trump
administration as deputy budget chief.
By the end he's running the whole
office. During that time he argued that
the president had the power to block
federal spending that Congress had
approved. And we are saying to the
American people, we can no longer afford
the paradigm that Congress keeps giving
us, which is that we're never going to
make any trade-offs. That we're never
going to align what we spend with what
we take in. That we're not going to
>> And he tried to do that in a number of
really memorable cases. Breaking news.
President Trump reportedly ordered to
hold back military aid for Ukraine for
at least
>> He was part of a group of White House
officials who froze military spending
for Ukraine in defiance of Congress.
Listeners will probably remember that
that essentially paved the way to the
president's impeachment.
>> The Trump administration will divert
$3.6 billion in defense spending for 175
miles of the president's wall along the
US Mexico border. The Pentagon.
>> He also helped come up with the idea of
using emergency powers to redirect
Pentagon spending to build a border wall
also without congressional approval.
>> You could almost see the lawyers at DOJ,
you know, their heads just spinning off
their access because they are going to
be the ones who have to defend this
national
>> essentially saying, you know, the
president can do what he wants with this
money. that new executive order that
will make it easier to hire and fire
some federal employees
>> and he pushed an executive order that
would have enabled the president to
easily fire tens of thousands of career
civil servants. And the idea of that was
both saving money by eliminating
employees, but also this idea that the
bureaucracy, the people who work in all
these federal agencies remain here
regardless of who is president. And
there's this sense of these federal
agencies are full of workers who he
believes tend to be more liberalleaning
and are not loyal to the president.
So the firing of these civil servants,
it sounds like, is very much about going
after what Trump and his allies see as
the deep state, this group of people
that are working against him and his
agenda from within. But at the same time
for vote, it's also about his really
primary focus, which is giving the
president control over spending and
eliminating it as much as possible.
>> That's exactly right. The philosophy is
expand the president's power and use it
to shrink the federal government. But in
the end, all of these efforts were
undone or reversed. You know, the budget
office was eventually forced to restore
the Ukraine money. All the other moves
were reversed by the Biden
administration. So despite all of Vot's
grand ambitions and his efforts to
really see them through in that first
term, he gets stymied.
>> He does. And then Trump loses the
election. He has to leave the White
House. But really from the very last
months in the White House to the minute
he leaves the White House, vote becomes
obsessed with this idea of how can we do
it different? How can we take what we
learn? What went wrong? How can we do it
right? How can we cut off this money and
make it last? And I talked to a lot of
people who said this was he was so
driven by this during these Biden years,
during this kind of time in the
wilderness. He just kind of becomes
obsessed with like, "All right, well,
how can we do it and have it stick the
next time?"
>> And how does he channel that obsession?
Like what is that he actually doing with
his time and all of that energy during
the Biden years?
>> So he leaves the Trump White House. He
goes and starts his own think tank. It's
called the Center for Renewing America.
In the first year that he's working
there, the tax records show he's the
only employee. And he rents out this
space in this kind of grungy rowhouse
near the capital that was actually
infested with uh some kind of clawing
animal, either rats or pigeons clawing
in the walls such that it was
distracting to people who were visiting.
And our colleagues Annie Carney and Luke
Broadwater wrote about this in their
book Madhouse, really conveying the idea
that he is very much in the wilderness
in these years.
>> A far cry from the White House.
>> Yes. And so during this time, he's
thinking really hard about what the
comeback looks like, all the puzzle
pieces, how to pave the way to it. He's
writing a lot of white papers, doing a
lot of research, working with a lot of
fellow Trump alums, working with the
folks of course also who are working on
project 2025, which was another one of
these blueprints for the second Trump
administration. And I talked to a lot of
folks close to him who said, you know,
this really seemed to be a time of
getting radicalized, getting angry, just
kind of having this this edge at that
time. What's an example of that harder
edge? Like how do you see it show
itself?
>> Well, so a few weeks after the 2024
election, he goes on Tucker Carlson's
show and there had been this uh clip
that had circulated of him where he had
talked about how he wanted government
employees to be in trauma.
>> Yeah, I remember that.
>> So Tucker asks him about it and he leans
into it. One of the arguments that
they're using in the press against me
right now is they say, uh, he he he
called for trauma within the
bureaucracies. Yeah, I called for trauma
within the bureaucracies. The bure
bureaucracies hate the American people.
>> He embraces it. He says, "Yeah, I want
government employees to be in trauma."
>> You go every agency and it's not just
big government. It's weaponized against
the country, of course. And so yeah, we
we I would want to provide trauma
against that bureaucracy in a way that
frees the American people from the
people that have assumed the type of
power that the Constitution and no law,
no public debate ever gave them.
>> And in that same interview, he also lays
out how he is going to get this done.
He's got a very specific legal strategy
in mind for how to cut the government,
dismantle these agencies, and get rid of
these employees. And that legal strategy
is centered on this idea of empoundment.
>> Bringing back the notion of empoundment.
And this is something that of what? Of
empowerment. The ability to not spend
money. For 200 years, presidents had the
ability to not spend a congressional
appropriation. Empowerment is the idea
that the president can block spending
that has already been approved by
Congress. The Constitution in Article 2
gives Congress the power of the purse,
the power to say how much money is going
to be spent and direct where it's going
to be spent. And essentially votes
reading is that if the president
disagrees, the president can refuse to
execute that spending, can impound that
money. So 200 years presidents are using
empoundment. They get money for
something. President says I don't think
it's a good idea or I certainly can do
it better or I have
>> one way that vote has put it is that
>> Congress gets to set the ceiling.
>> Congress can set the ceiling of how much
will be spent
>> but you weren't ever meant to be forced
to spend it and it has become a floor
>> but not necessarily the floor. The idea
being that the legislature according to
vote can tell the federal government
what the upper limit of spending is.
Like you can't spend more than this
amount, but Congress can't compel the
government to spend a minimum amount of
money. Exactly. But the last time a
president tried to actually follow
through on this idea was Nixon.
President Nixon in the 70s decided not
to spend money that had been
appropriated by Congress on things that
he didn't want to spend. It was clean
water programs, environment programs.
Congress had appropriated this money and
the Nixon White House refused to spend
it. And Congress said, "Wo, no. We want
to make sure that you cannot do that."
And they passed a law.
>> They passed the Empowerment Control Act,
which was really the Empowerment
Elimination Act
>> called the Empowerment Control Act. And
I believe as a budget guy that was the
original sin on why we can't do anything
fiscally from that moment on. It's also
why we
>> arrest vote thinks that the empoundment
control act that that law is
unconstitutional.
>> Empowment is in vitally important not
just to save the country fiscally. It is
vitally important to be able to rest
control of the bureaucracy because
>> he wants to get that empoundment power
that he was not able to execute in Trump
one. all those times that, you know, the
White House tried to block money or
freeze money and it got undone and the
president got impeached, he's trying to
figure out, well, okay, if the law got
in the way of that, how can we change
the legal landscape?
So what he wants to do is intentionally
set up legal fights over the Empowerment
Control Act that will eventually go to
the Supreme Court where people close to
him have said he is supremely confident
that the Supreme Court will eventually
either overturn the Empowerment Control
Act or essentially determine in some way
that the president has constitutional
authority to block this spending. And we
know that he has a pretty friendly
Supreme Court where the conservatives
have this 6 to3 majority. I assume he's
also banking on that advantage.
>> Absolutely.
>> So Carl, it's one thing for vote to have
developed these ideas in his four years
in the wilderness coming into office for
a second time. I'm wondering what
President Trump makes of this plan to
radically change the way that money is
spent in Washington. I mean, vote would
need Trump's buyin to execute it, right?
Do we know what Trump thought of it?
>> Well, Vote is very much a loyalist and a
good soldier who has been there with
Trump from the very beginning. And an
interesting thing about what vote wants
to do is that he really is again deeply
driven by fiscal austerity and cutting
budgets, which is an issue that the
president does not particularly care
about. But the president sees in vote
and in this plan something that can give
him a lot of power. And I think that for
vote vote sees Trump when president as
someone who can help him realize this
vision of much smaller government. So
both President Trump and vote believe
that there should be more power
concentrated in the hands of the
presidency. They have different reasons
but in any case there's this marriage of
convenience. They both have good use for
one another.
>> Absolutely.
And so then we get to this moment where
Trump and Vote are heading back to the
White House. Vote has done all of his
homework. He is so prepared. He has
plans and blueprints and contingencies
and he has mapped it all out. He has a
360°ree vision for how it's all going to
go and he's ready to go into the White
House and realize it. But then he runs
into the richest man in the world, Elon
Musk.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
>> Coral, you said vote all ready to go
runs into Elon Musk. What did you mean
by that? Well, Musk had contributed more
than any other donor toward the
re-election of President Trump. He's the
richest man in the world. And of course,
he came in with this idea of what would
become Doge, this move fast and break
things, tear up the federal government.
And Vote very much had his vision. They
both envisioned, you know, clearing out
all the inefficiencies and streamlining
the government. But beyond that, the
practice of how in fact to do it was
profoundly different.
>> How so? Cuz it does seem like the two
might be rowing in the same direction
being kind of philosophically aligned on
this issue.
>> Absolutely. But you know, the way one
person put it to me is like Vote did all
his homework. Musk did not do it at all.
You know, Vote had to be brought in to
help brief Musk on how the government
works. and Musk came in and he had all
this money and he had access to the
president and he was kind of given free
reign to do what he wanted and in many
ways at least at the beginning vote was
not sort of in the center. He was kind
of sidelined. He was extremely
frustrated and what Musk was doing drove
vote crazy.
>> Can you give us an example just of what
the kind of frustration of vote actually
looked like? I mean when did Musk get in
his way? How exactly?
>> Sure. So, early on in the Doge era, Doge
informed all federal employees that
every Friday they had to send an email
listing five things that they had
accomplished that week. But the basic
process by which that email had been
sent out was not legal.
>> And there's a lot of federal agencies
where people work on things that cannot
be publicly disclosed. You know, it's
the kind of thing you could probably
send out in a private company, but in
the federal government, it set off all
these legal trip wires, caused all these
problems, and crucially, what Doge was
doing was sparking off a lot of
litigation that Vote did not want and
had not planned. Vote wants litigation.
He wants lawsuits, but he has a very
specific road map of exactly how he
wants those lawsuits to go. The Doge was
was just like breaking stuff and cutting
stuff all over the place. doing things
that Vote knew were illegal and were
causing all this litigation that he
didn't even want.
>> It's interesting. You hear a lot that
the Trump administration, you know, has
tried to do this flood the zone approach
of overwhelm your opponents with so many
things that they just can't contend with
them all. But vote is really advocating
the opposite, it sounds like. I mean, he
is wanting a very deliberate plan to be
executed. Absolutely. He is the
consumate disciplined
executor in every way. The opposite I
think of how Musk operates. And that's
why once Musk finally blew up with the
president and left town. That really is
where we have seen the rise of Russell
vote.
>> And what has that rise actually looked
like? What's the manifestation of vote
unleashed unencumbered by Musk? So, as
soon as Musk leaves, you start to see
vote enact this step-wise approach to
legally locking down a lot of the cuts
that he wants to put into place.
First out, he sends this request to
Congress saying, "Hey, I want you to cut
about $8 billion in foreign aid that we
don't want to spend that you've already
appropriated." Congress is very
uncomfortable with this. Even a lot of
Republicans are very uncomfortable with
this. So what vote does is he inserts in
that package something that he thinks
that will make it irresistible to his
fellow conservatives.
>> The proposal would resend 1.1 billion in
funding to the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting,
>> which is cuts to the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting,
>> which has funded a politically biased
public media system that has promoted
radical and divisive ideologies at the
American taxpayers's expense. And that
strategy ends up working
>> on this vote. The yays are 216.
The nays are 213.
The resolution is adopted.
>> And vote gloated about this.
>> We've talked about defunding corporation
for public broadcasting for decades.
President Trump's the first one to be
able to do it. He said, "We budgeteers,
we conservatives have tried for years
and years to kill the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting, and now we've
finally done it." So then he escalates
this idea of of taking the power of the
purse from Congress.
>> Today, uh, the president and Russ vote
sent over to Congress a pocket of about
$5 billion in recisions. And what he
said is, "Look, we have about another $5
billion in foreign aid that you,
Congress, have appropriated that we
don't want to spend." H
>> And it's not just $5 billion. It's $5
billion of the absolute worst examples
of foreign aid.
>> We're not going to spend it. We're going
to cancel it unless you vote otherwise
by the end of the fiscal year, which is
September 30th. Kind of daring them to
do this.
>> Daring them to vote against him.
>> Yes. but they didn't do it.
[Music]
And so essentially that allows the White
House to kind of roll over them and say,
"All right, that money is now canceled."
There is this Congressional Watchdog
Agency, the Government Accountability
Office, that says this is absolutely
illegal. And what I have been told by
people close to vote is that he would
like to see them sue. that that's like a
lawsuit that he wants to have and take
to the Supreme Court because he is so
confident that he will win.
>> So, it sounds like in this case, vote
has basically gone to Congress and said,
"Look, we're not going to spend this $5
billion in foreign aid that you've
already appropriated. Go ahead and
challenge us on it." Congress does not
challenge the Trump administration on
this. And now he's waiting and wanting
this watchdog office to bring a legal
challenge because this is a way to get
the Supreme Court to rule on the issue
he cares most about which is
empoundment. Basically the ability of
the president to not spend money that
Congress has directed him to spend.
>> Yes. And you know, I can't say that this
is going to be the exact vehicle, but
they are definitely trying to line up
these cases and kind of line up these
moments where they are intentionally
pushing against what is seen as the
lines of the law in order to engineer
such a Supreme Court case.
>> Coral, I want to zoom out and just ask
you a question that I've been thinking
of as we've been discussing votes aims.
Is there not a risk that all this work
he's done to empower the executive could
just make it even easier for the next
president to do exactly what Biden did
last time, overturn a bunch of this
stuff and undo all of votes work? Like,
what's to stop a powerful Democratic
president from just turning back on
these spiggots that he's turned off?
>> Great question. and he's definitely
thought about this and he's talked about
this.
>> We can actually save the country and
that's really what it comes down to. The
hour is late. It's not too late but it's
really late and this isn't
>> he understands the people who he's
working with very much understand that
they're not going to stay in power that
they have a limited amount of time to do
what they want to do.
>> If we don't execute we may never have
this chance again. So creating something
permanent is the ultimate aim. And so
the way that vote has described this is
once they can kind of re-engineer
presidential power to cut off spending
to agencies and programs. The idea is
basically starve them to death.
>> We want to make sure that the
bureaucracy can't reconstitute itself
later in future administrations. Cut off
spending to foreign aid, to the
Environmental Protection Agency, to
agencies like the Federal Reserve. Cut
off all this spending
so profoundly that even if you know a
very liberal Democrat president comes in
after Trump leaves, these agencies
aren't just slimmed down or, you know,
somewhat deprived of resources. They've
basically been scorched down to nothing.
And the idea is that it would need a
generation or more for them to come
back. That just turning on the spigots
would not be enough to bring them back.
The picture that you've described here,
Coral, is one where you have an
incredibly meticulous planner motivated
and empowered to carry out a pretty
radical vision. And I wonder if we
consider what it would look like for
vote to carry this all the way through,
for his vision to be fully realized. How
do the contours of the American
government change in a world where he
really implements his plan to the
fullest?
So vote has described how he thinks this
would look
>> if you have a radical constitutionalism
and that's really what I've been calling
for given this crazy unconstitutional
situation that we're finding ourselves
in. If you have a radical
constitutionalism, it's going to be
destabilizing.
>> He would call it radical
constitutionalism. He would say that he
is trying to create a world that is what
the founding fathers wanted.
>> There are no independent agencies.
Congress may have viewed them as such.
SEC or the FCC, CFPB, the whole alphabet
soup, but that is not something that the
Constitution understands. The whole
notion of an independent agency should
be thrown out.
>> I think we would see independent
agencies completely beholden to the
White House or not existing at all. But
we would also see the powers distributed
really differently between the three
branches of government with so much more
power seated in the president where any
kind of program whether it's social,
scientific, environmental, no longer
relies on that approval by Congress, but
really depends forever on whether or not
the president wants it to happen. we
would see a fundamentally remade three
branches of government with a lot more
power and authority in the executive and
less checks and balances in the other
two. I guess I'm wondering whether as
vote progresses toward that goal,
there's a world in which it starts to
backfire on him as he and the
administration move to fire thousands of
workers, for example, during the
shutdown to slash spending at this time.
You'd expect to see a negative economic
impact, right? The government is one of
the biggest employers in the country and
you've told us Trump isn't as bought in
as vote is on shrinking the government
from a philosophical standpoint. So if
this plan becomes politically costly for
Trump, might that lead to the president
abandoning votes vision?
>> That is the big question is what will
the political and economic fallout of
this look like?
I think the man driving the train right
now is driven by radical ideological
fire and ultimate preparation. But what
will happen when the safety net is taken
away? When jobs are lost, when people
really feel this,
>> when the rubber hits the road.
>> Yeah. I I do think there is also a bet
from the White House that voters will
like this, that voters will want to see
government drawn back and removed from
their lives. That's what vote wants to
see. I think that if Americans realize
they don't like that and that there is a
a tremendous backlash to the pulling
back of all these safety nets that Trump
himself could get cold feet and walk
this vision back and that vote might not
get what he wants. You know, we'll see
what the political fallout looks like.
>> Well, Coral, thanks so much.
>> Thank you, Natalie. It was great to be
here as always.
[Music]
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
Israel and Hamas are set to begin a new
round of negotiations in Egypt on
Monday, where the two sides, speaking
through Egyptian and Qatari mediators,
will discuss President Trump's proposal
for ending the war in Gaza. They're
expected to focus on the potential
release of all Israeli hostages in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners.
On Friday, Hamas said in a statement
that it agreed to Trump's framework for
returning to Israel all living hostages
and the bodies of those who had died.
But the militant group left many
questions unanswered, including whether
it agreed to the White House demand that
it be barred from political power in
Gaza. Trump told the news site Axios
that he'll push to finalize a peace deal
between the two sides in the next few
days.
[Music]
Today's episode was produced by Rob
Zipco, Caitlyn O'Keefe, Carlos Prito,
and Anna Foley. It was edited by Lisa
Chow and was engineered by Chris Wood.
Contains music by Dan Powell, Marian
Lozano, and Diane Wong.
That's it for the daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroof. See you tomorrow.
[Music]